# SIH ELITE SOLUTION ARCHITECT — MASTER PROMPT You are an elite **Smart India Hackathon (SIH) Solution Architect, Product Strategist, Systems Engineer, AI/ML Architect, Hardware Engineer, UX Architect, Government-Tech Consultant, and Hackathon Judge**. I will provide you with an SIH Problem St
pasted
Statement ID 
26049
Problem Statement Title 
Modifications to improve the reliability, efficiency,and lifespan of electrical and electronic equipment and systems in the ambient condition of subzero temperature and low pressure of High Altitude Areas(HAA) and Super High Altitude Areas (SHAA) of Ladakh region.
Description 
• Background:
High Altitude Areas (HAA) and Super High Altitude Areas (SHAA) of Ladakh region presents one of the harshest operating environments for electronic equipment and systems because of its extreme cold, low atmospheric pressure, intense solar/UV radiation and large temperature variations between day and night. These environmental conditions strongly affect the reliability, efficiency, and lifespan of electrical and electronic systems.
• Description:
Ladakh is a cold desert located at elevations of approximately 3000 to 6000m above sea level. There are several environmental challenges viz. very low temperatures (-35Â°C to 40Â°C in winters), low atmospheric pressure, lower partial pressure of oxygen, low humidity, snow, ice and occasional moisture condensation. These conditions pose serious operational and storage issues of electrical and electronic equipment and systems and following effects on same is observed:
Reduced Cooling Efficiency: At high altitude, air density decreases significantly. Thin air removes heat less effectively (degradation of convective cooling), so electronic components run hotter even when ambient temperature is cold. This means overheating of processors, reduced efficiency of cooling fans and heat sinks, thermal stress on semiconductors and premature component failure. Systems being affected are computers and servers, telecom base stations, radar system, power electronics, military communication systems.
Insulation Breakdown and Electrical Arcing: Low atmospheric pressure reduces the dielectric strength of air. Air becomes a weaker insulator, increasing the risk of sparking and arcing between conductors.
Battery Performance Degradation: Cold temperatures severely affect battery chemistry. Lithium-ion and lead-acid batteries lose capacity and discharge faster in freezing conditions. Owing to this there is reduced backup time, slow charging and voltage instability.
Thermal Cycling Damage: Ladakh experiences large temperature variation between day and night. Repeated expansion and contraction develop mechanical stresses in the components. This result in cracking of solder joints, PCB warping etc.
Increased Radiation Exposure: Higher altitude means thinner atmospheric shielding, so electrical and electronic components receive more UV radiation and cosmic rays. This means semiconductor degradation, memory bit error and failure of sensitive sensors.
Effects on Communication Systems: High Mountains and severe weather affect signal propagation. There are problems like signal attenuation and reflection, antenna icing. Because of these cellular networks, satellite communication and military radio system get affected.
Real-World Impact: The Drone Challenge: The Indian Armyâ€™s extensive use of drones along the LAC highlights these exact issues. In the thin air of Ladakh, drone rotors generate less lift, forcing the electronic motors to work much harder and draw more current. Combined with cold-induced battery drain, drones that fly for an hour at sea level might only manage 20-25 minutes of flight time in Ladakh
• Expected Solution:
The environment of Ladakh significantly affects electrical and electronic equipment due to low atmospheric pressure, extreme cold, high UV/cosmic radiation, dust and dryness, and large thermal variations. These conditions can cause overheating, insulation failure, battery degradation, display malfunction, communication instability, and reduced reliability. Therefore, electrical and electronic equipment and systems used in Ladakh require specialized design modifications to improve the reliability, efficiency, and lifespan.
Organization DRDO
THE SOLUTION
Product Name
HIMVAJRA — High-Altitude Integrated Monitoring, Validation And Junction-thermal Resilience Architecture
Four coupled subsystems:
One-Line Concept
A failure-physics platform that predicts how electronics will fail at 3,000–6,000 m, proves it in a hypobaric-cryo chamber we built, and prevents it with a retrofit hardening controller that can be fitted to equipment the Army already owns.
Core Value Proposition
The PS asks for "specialized design modifications." Every team will produce a list of modifications — insulation, heaters, conformal coating, wider creepage. That list is freely available from any reliability handbook. It is not a solution; it is a literature review.
The actual bottleneck for DRDO is different, and it is threefold:
You cannot verify a modification without the environment. India has few facilities that can apply 50 kPa and −35 °C and 30 °C diurnal cycling and UV, simultaneously, on a live powered DUT. Without that, "hardening" is assertion.
You cannot re-buy the fleet. Radars, base stations, BFT terminals and gensets are already at the LAC. The deployable intervention is a retrofit, not a redesign.
Nobody is quantifying the loss. "Drone flies 25 min instead of 60" is treated as one problem. It is three separate physics terms with three different fixes, and only two of them are recoverable.
HIMVAJRA attacks all three: it owns the measurement, it outputs a retrofit, and it decomposes the loss budget numerically.
Why This Architecture
Rejected alternatives (evaluated and discarded):
Why the chosen architecture wins: the chamber converts every software claim into a measured claim. The Forge is not a simulator asserting numbers — it is an analytical model whose residual error against our own chamber data is published. The Guard is not a concept — it is the physical embodiment of the Forge's output. And the loop closes: field telemetry from Guard recalibrates Forge. That is an earned digital twin.
Critically: whoever owns the test environment owns the credibility in the room. No competitor will walk in with a working vacuum-cryo chamber.

5. COMPLETE SYSTEM DESIGN
text
┌──────────────────────────── DESIGN TIME ────────────────────────────┐
│                                                                     │
│   BOM / schematic / enclosure   ──►  ┌──────────────────────┐       │
│   Deployment profile (alt,      ──►  │  HIMVAJRA FORGE      │       │
│   T-range, duty cycle, solar)        │  Failure-physics     │       │
│                                      │  engine              │       │
│                                      └──────────┬───────────┘       │
│                                                 │                   │
│                      Derating report + Hardening BOM + RUL curve    │
│                                                 │                   │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────────┘
                                                  │
        ┌─────────────────────────────────────────┼───────────────┐
        │              VALIDATION LOOP            ▼               │
        │   ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────┐    │
        │   │           HIMVAJRA CHAMBER                     │    │
        │   │  Vacuum vessel (30–101 kPa, PID)               │    │
        │   │  Cryo shell (−35 … +55 °C, programmable ramp)  │    │
        │   │  UV-A/B + solar-thermal load                   │    │
        │   │  8× K-type TC · IR array · HV coupon · e-load  │    │
        │   └──────────────────┬─────────────────────────────┘    │
        │        measured ΔT, breakdown V, capacity, R_int        │
        │                      │                                  │
        │       model residual ├──► recalibrates FORGE            │
        └──────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────────┘
                               │
┌──────────────────────────────┼─── FIELD / RUN TIME ─────────────────┐
│                              ▼                                      │
│   Legacy asset          ┌─────────────────────────┐                 │
│   (radar PSU / BTS /    │   HIMVAJRA GUARD        │                 │
│    genset / drone pack) │   ESP32-S3 + STM32G4    │                 │
│        ◄── control ─────┤   Envelope state machine│                 │
│        ──► sensing ─────►   Local, autonomous     │                 │
│                         └───────────┬─────────────┘                 │
│                        MQTT/LoRa, store-and-forward                 │
│                                     ▼                               │
│                         ┌─────────────────────────┐                 │
│                         │  FIELD SERVER (on-prem) │                 │
│                         │  FastAPI · Timescale    │                 │
│                         │  Runs air-gapped        │                 │
│                         └───────────┬─────────────┘                 │
│                                     ▼                               │
│                         ┌─────────────────────────┐                 │
│                         │  HIMVAJRA FLEET UI      │                 │
│                         │  Envelope · RUL · Maint │                 │
│                         └─────────────────────────┘                 │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
Component specifications
CHAMBER
Purpose: produce ground truth; nothing else in the system is trustworthy without it.
Tech: 2-gallon steel/polycarbonate vacuum degassing vessel (rated full vacuum, operated at ½ vacuum → large safety margin); single-stage rotary-vane pump; chest freezer as cryo shell; 200 W PTC heater for ramp-up; BMP390 + MPX5100AP absolute pressure sensors (redundant); proportional solenoid bleed valve.
In: target altitude profile, temperature profile, DUT power.
Out: time-series of (P_abs, T_amb, T_case[8], T_hotspot, V, I, breakdown_event) at 1 Hz.
Processing: dual PID (pressure via bleed-valve duty; temperature via freezer duty + heater PWM), safety interlock supervisor.
Failure handling: pressure sensor disagreement > 3 kPa → vent to ambient, halt. Over-temp on DUT → cut DUT power, log. HV rail has a hard interlock on lid-closed + dead-man switch.
FORGE
Purpose: turn a deployment profile into a quantified derating + hardening prescription.
Tech: Python / FastAPI, NumPy + SciPy (solve_ivp for the lumped RC thermal network), Pydantic schemas.
In: component list with θ_JA/θ_JC, power dissipation, enclosure geometry, altitude, T_min/T_max, ΔT_diurnal, cycles/day, voltage rails, gap/creepage geometry.
Out: derated θ_JA, predicted T_junction envelope, required clearance multiplier, cycles-to-failure (Miner-accumulated), predicted battery usable capacity vs T, SEU FIT estimate, prioritised hardening BOM.
Failure handling: every output ships with a confidence band from chamber-measured residuals; if input is outside the calibrated domain, output is flagged EXTRAPOLATED.
GUARD
Purpose: the actual "modification" the PS asks for — deployable on existing equipment.
Tech: ESP32-S3 (industrial −40…+85 °C module) for comms/logging + STM32G4 for the deterministic control loop; FRAM for config; external SPI NOR ring buffer for telemetry.
In: K-type TC ×4, BMP390 (absolute P), SHT45 (RH → dew point), INA228 (bus V/I, 20-bit), battery NTC ×2, optional current clamp.
Out: PWM to fans/heater film/Peltier, charge-enable line, HV-enable line, load-shed relay, RS-485/CAN status frame, MQTT telemetry, local OLED + buzzer.
Failure handling: watchdog + dual-bank firmware; loss of any sensor → degrade to the conservative envelope, never to permissive; loss of uplink → fully autonomous, buffer telemetry.
FIELD SERVER / FLEET
Purpose: per-asset RUL, maintenance scheduling, cross-site comparison. Runs on-prem (no cloud — defence requirement).
Tech: FastAPI, PostgreSQL + TimescaleDB, Redis, Mosquitto, MinIO, React+TS, Docker Compose.
Failure handling: Guard is never dependent on it. Server down = telemetry buffered, control unaffected.

6. PRODUCT ARCHITECTURE — MODULES
M1 — Environmental Replication (Chamber control)
Closed-loop pressure + temperature + UV. Exists because claims without a test environment are worthless to DRDO. Talks to M2 over MQTT as just another telemetry source. Build for SIH: yes, fully.
M2 — Instrumentation & DAQ
8× thermocouple (MAX31855 array), IR thermal array (AMG8833; upgrade to FLIR Lepton if budget allows), INA228 power measurement, programmable electronic load. Exists to measure what the Forge predicts. Build: yes.
M3 — Thermal Physics Core (Forge)
Air-property model (ρ from measured P and T, not ISA), natural/forced convection derating, radiation term (becomes relatively significant at low ρ), lumped RC network, solar gain on enclosure. Build: yes — this is the intellectual spine.
M4 — Dielectric & Arc-Risk Core (Forge)
Paschen-curve evaluation over the gap/pressure space, creepage/clearance altitude correction, corona-inception flagging, partial-discharge risk on motor windings and ESCs. Build: analytical engine + HV coupon validation.
M5 — Fatigue & Lifetime Core (Forge)
Coffin–Manson / Norris–Landzberg solder-joint model, Miner's-rule damage accumulation from measured field ΔT rather than assumed ΔT. This is what produces "remaining thermal-cycle budget" per asset. Build: model + accelerated-cycling run in chamber.
M6 — Energy Core (Forge + Guard)
Battery capacity and R_int(T) characterisation, state-of-power estimator, preconditioning scheduler, drone loss-budget decomposition. Build: yes — this carries the PS's flagship drone scenario.
M7 — Radiation Resilience (Guard firmware)
ECC/CRC-protected critical state, triple-redundant config variables with majority vote, periodic memory scrubbing, FRAM for config, SEU counter exported as a health metric, fault-injection harness for demonstration. Build: firmware yes; actual irradiation is out of scope and will be stated as such.
M8 — Envelope Decision Engine (Guard)
The state machine described in §13. Build: yes — this is the product.
M9 — Fleet, RUL & Maintenance (Server + UI)
Asset registry, envelope timeline, accumulated damage, "this PSU has 61 % of its thermal-cycle budget left; schedule swap in the next convoy window." Build: yes, but keep the UI to four screens.
M10 — Audit & Security
Hash-chained append-only event log, RBAC, mTLS device identity, signed offline update bundles. Build: core only. Full PKI = future scope.

7. THE WOW FACTOR
"Cold Air, Hot Chip" — a single-variable live proof
What it does: With the DUT's ambient temperature held constant, we lower only the chamber pressure from 101 kPa (sea level) to ~54 kPa (≈5,000 m). At identical electrical power and identical ambient temperature, the measured hotspot temperature rises. The Forge's prediction for that rise is displayed before the pressure drop starts, and the live curve converges onto it.
Why it is innovative: It inverts the entire room's intuition. The PS itself says "electronic components run hotter even when ambient temperature is cold" — most teams will quote that sentence. We will be the only team that measures it live, with one variable isolated, and predicts the magnitude in advance.
How it works technically:
For natural convection, Nu ∝ Ra^¼ and Ra ∝ ρ², giving h ∝ ρ^0.5. For fan-forced flow, Nu ∝ Re^0.8 with Re ∝ ρ, giving h ∝ ρ^0.8 — and the fan's static pressure rise also scales with ρ, so the real operating-point flow degrades further than the ideal. At the same temperature, ρ ∝ P:
For a hotspot dissipating 15 W with a sea-level θ_sa of 3.0 °C/W, the sink-to-air ΔT goes from 45 °C to ~63 °C at 5,500 m forced-cooled — an ~18 °C rise with zero change in ambient or power.
Why competitors may not implement it: it requires a working vacuum chamber with live electrical feedthroughs, closed-loop pressure control, calibrated thermocouples, and a predictive model good enough to hit the number in public. Any one of those can be faked in a slide; none can be faked on a bench.
Second wow (if time permits): an HV test coupon with graded gap spacings inside the chamber. As pressure drops, flashover walks down the gap ladder — a visible arc at a gap that was perfectly safe at sea level. Instant, wordless proof of the PS's point 2.
2-minute demo script:
0:00 Forge on screen: "predicted hotspot at 54 kPa = 71.4 °C ± 3.1 °C." Live reading: 53 °C at 101 kPa.
0:20 Start pump. Pressure trace descends. Ambient TC held flat on screen — this is the honesty guarantee.
0:50 Hotspot curve climbs.
1:30 Pressure stabilises at 54 kPa. Hotspot settles. Read the number against the prediction band.
1:45 Enable Guard. Envelope goes DERATED → fan ramp + load shed → hotspot pulled back under limit.
2:00 "That is the difference between a specification and a proof."

8. AI/ML — WHERE IT ACTUALLY BELONGS
Verdict: AI is a minority component here, and deliberately so. This is a physics problem. An LSTM trained on data we do not have would be an invitation for a DRDO judge to destroy us. We use ML in exactly three places, all physics-first.
AI-1 — Residual Correction Model (the only "core" ML)
Problem: the analytical convection model has systematic error from enclosure geometry, mounting, emissivity, and fan curve.
In: (P_abs, T_amb, P_diss, fan_duty, enclosure class) → Out: Δ(T_predicted − T_measured).
Model: Gaussian Process regression (scikit-learn) — chosen over a neural net because it gives a calibrated uncertainty band on a small dataset (~300–1,000 chamber points), which is exactly what a derating report needs.
Training: our own chamber sweeps. Hold-out by enclosure class to test generalisation.
Inference: server-side, at design time. Not on the edge.
Metrics: MAE on T_junction (target < 4 °C), and coverage of the 95 % band (target ≥ 90 %).
Limitation: will not generalise to enclosure geometries far from the training set. Handled explicitly — outputs are flagged EXTRAPOLATED.
Fallback: pure analytical prediction with a widened fixed band. The system degrades to physics, never to nothing.
AI-2 — Battery R_int(T, SoC, age) Estimator
Problem: terminal voltage under cold load is a liar; we need open-circuit voltage.
Model: recursive least squares on a 1st-order Thévenin ECM, running on the STM32 — a classical estimator, not deep learning, because it must run in a 10 ms control loop on a microcontroller at −30 °C.
Metrics: SoC error vs coulomb-counted ground truth at −20 °C (target < 8 %).
Fallback: conservative lookup table from chamber characterisation.
AI-3 — Field Telemetry Anomaly Detection
Model: Isolation Forest / robust z-score on per-asset residual from its own physics model. Detects "this box is now 9 °C hotter than physics says it should be" → fan clogged, thermal paste pumped out, insulation wet.
Fallback: fixed thresholds.
What we explicitly do NOT do: no LLM, no "AI failure prediction" trained on synthetic labels, no computer-vision component. There is no honest role for them here and inventing one is how teams lose.

9. HARDWARE ARCHITECTURE
CHAMBER BOM
GUARD BOM (per unit)
Note on the pressure vent: a fully sealed sea-level-assembled box at 5,500 m sees ~50 kPa differential — gasket creep, lid bowing, and seal failure. A breathable pressure-equalisation membrane (Gore-type) is a one-rupee-class fix that almost no team will think of, and DRDO will notice that we did.
Three hardware tiers
Minimum Prototype (~₹22,000): small acrylic vacuum desiccator + diaphragm pump (reaches ~60 kPa), insulated cooler box + dry ice instead of freezer, ESP32 + 4 TCs, one DUT board. Proves "Cold Air, Hot Chip" and battery cold-soak. No UV, no HV coupon.
SIH Prototype (~₹68,000): full chamber BOM + 2× Guard units + drone battery bench. This is what we build.
Production Architecture: commercial walk-in environmental chamber with altitude capability (₹15–40 lakh class), Guard as a qualified LRU with conformal-coated PCB, −55…+85 °C industrial-grade BOM, MIL-STD-810H Method 500.6 / 502.7 / 503.7 qualification, MIL-STD-461 EMI, IP67 aluminium housing, secure-boot fused silicon. NEEDS VERIFICATION: applicable Indian defence environmental standard is believed to be JSS 55555 — confirm the exact edition and test methods with the nodal agency before claiming alignment.

10. SOFTWARE STACK
Frontend
React 18 + TypeScript + Vite — not Next.js: the field server is air-gapped and single-node; SSR buys nothing and adds a Node runtime to maintain.
Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui — dense operator-console layouts fast.
Plotly.js for the live chamber traces (streaming, log axes, dual-Y). Recharts for dashboard cards.
MapLibre GL + offline MBTiles — not Google/Mapbox: no internet at the site, and a defence deployment cannot call a foreign tile API.
Zustand over Redux — the state is small; ceremony is cost.
Backend
FastAPI (Python) — the Forge is NumPy/SciPy; keeping the API in the same language avoids a service boundary between the model and its consumer.
MQTT (Mosquitto) for device telemetry — QoS 1, retained last-will for instant offline detection, tiny payloads over LoRa/GPRS. HTTP polling would be wrong for intermittent links.
Celery + Redis for long Forge runs and RUL recomputation.
JWT + refresh tokens for humans; mTLS client certs for devices.
Database
PostgreSQL 16 + TimescaleDB — primary and time-series in one engine. Chosen over InfluxDB because a forward-deployed server must be operable by one signals NCO, not a two-database ops team; and because RUL queries join telemetry to asset metadata, which SQL does natively.
Redis — live envelope state cache, rate limiting.
MinIO — raw chamber run archives, firmware bundles (S3 API, self-hosted, no cloud).
AI
scikit-learn (GP regression, Isolation Forest), SciPy (ODE solve, optimisation). No PyTorch/TensorFlow — a 400 MB dependency for a model with 600 training points is an anti-pattern.
Hardware / firmware
ESP-IDF (FreeRTOS) on ESP32-S3; STM32 HAL + bare-metal control loop on G4. C, not MicroPython — deterministic timing and −40 °C reliability.
CAN 2.0B / RS-485 Modbus RTU to host equipment — the protocols legacy defence gear actually speaks.
Protobuf-encoded telemetry frames over MQTT — ~4× smaller than JSON, which matters on LoRa duty-cycle budgets.
Infrastructure
Docker Compose, single-node, fully offline-installable from a signed tarball. Not Kubernetes: overkill and unmaintainable at a forward post.
Prometheus + Grafana + Loki — self-hosted observability.
GitHub Actions for CI, producing an offline bundle artifact.
Why no cloud at all? This is the single most important stack decision. A DRDO judge will ask where the data goes. "AWS Mumbai" is a losing answer. "Nowhere — it runs on a NUC in the shelter, and syncs to HQ over your existing link when you choose" is a winning one.

11. DATA ARCHITECTURE
text
SOURCES
 ├─ Chamber DAQ (1 Hz, 14 channels)
 ├─ Guard field telemetry (1/60 Hz nominal, 1 Hz in PROTECT)
 ├─ Component datasheets (θ_JA, θ_JC, T_op, ESR@−40 °C)  [manual entry]
 ├─ Deployment profile (altitude, T-range, duty cycle)    [operator entry]
 └─ Standards tables (clearance altitude factors, SEU flux)  ← NEEDS VERIFICATION
        ↓
INGESTION   MQTT (Protobuf) → Mosquitto → FastAPI consumer
        ↓
VALIDATION  range checks · rate-of-change limits · sensor cross-check
            (BMP390 vs MPX5100AP must agree within 3 kPa)
            TC open-circuit detect · duplicate suppression by (device_id, seq)
        ↓
NORMALISATION  SI units · UTC · ρ computed from measured P and T
        ↓
PROCESSING   thermal RC solve · Paschen eval · Miner damage increment
        ↓
AI/ANALYTICS  GP residual correction · RLS battery ECM · anomaly score
        ↓
STORAGE     Timescale hypertables (raw 90 d → 1 min rollup 2 y → 1 h rollup ∞)
            PostgreSQL relational (assets, profiles, reports, audit chain)
            MinIO (raw run archives, firmware)
        ↓
DECISION ENGINE  envelope state · RUL · maintenance recommendation
        ↓
ACTION      Guard actuation · operator alert · maintenance ticket
Core schema (abridged)
sql
assets(id, type, model, site_id, install_date, altitude_m,
       criticality ENUM('mission_critical','important','routine'),
       thermal_model_id, cycle_budget_total, cycle_damage_accum)

telemetry(time TIMESTAMPTZ, device_id, p_abs_kpa, t_amb_c, t_case_c[4],
          t_junction_est_c, rh_pct, dewpoint_c, v_bus_mv, i_bus_ma,
          batt_t_c, batt_r_int_mohm, soc_pct, sop_w,
          envelope_state, seu_ecc_corrections, fan_duty, heater_duty)
          -- hypertable, chunk 1 day, compress after 7 days

chamber_runs(id, profile_json, started_at, dut_id, notes)
chamber_samples(time, run_id, ...14 channels...)   -- hypertable

forge_reports(id, asset_id, inputs_json, outputs_json,
              model_version, residual_band_c, extrapolated BOOL)

audit_log(id, ts, actor, action, payload_hash, prev_hash)  -- hash chain
Data quality checks: redundant pressure sensors must agree; thermocouple open-circuit detection; monotonic sequence numbers per device with gap logging; any Forge output derived from a NEEDS VERIFICATION table is watermarked in the UI.
Never invented: we do not claim access to any Army equipment database, any DRDO telemetry feed, or any public Ladakh environmental dataset. All field-condition numbers used in the Forge come from either (a) our own chamber, or (b) ISA equations from measured P and T. NEEDS VERIFICATION: if the team wants real Ladakh meteorological baselines, IMD historical station data for Leh must be sourced and licence-checked — do not assume availability.

12. REAL-WORLD WORKFLOW
text
PROCUREMENT / PRE-DEPLOYMENT
  Unit specifies equipment for a post at 5,200 m
        ↓
  Forge: enter BOM + enclosure + deployment profile
        ↓
  Report: "PSU hotspot exceeds T_j,max by 14 °C in July peak.
           400 V rail clearance is 1.2 mm; needs 1.8 mm at this altitude.
           Electrolytic caps C7/C9 ESR ×6 at −30 °C → cold-start instability.
           Solder cycle budget 4,100 cycles ≈ 5.6 yr at 2 cycles/day."
        ↓
  Two paths: modify the design  OR  fit a GUARD retrofit
        ↓
CHAMBER VALIDATION
  Modified unit → 72 h combined profile (altitude + diurnal + UV)
  Pass/fail against predicted envelope; residual fed back to Forge
        ↓
DEPLOYMENT
  Guard fitted, asset registered, baseline thermal signature captured
        ↓
DAILY OPERATION (fully autonomous)
  Pre-dawn: batt at −28 °C → Guard preconditions pack to +10 °C
            before mission power-up, using shore power
  Power-up: surface temp below dew point → power-up HELD 4 min,
            heater on, until condensation risk clears
  Midday:   solar gain + 57 kPa → T_j approaching limit →
            DERATED: fan 100 %, non-critical loads shed, operator notified
  Evening:  diurnal ΔT logged → Miner damage increment written
        ↓
SYNC (opportunistic)
  Guard → field server → (when link available) → HQ
        ↓
MAINTENANCE PLANNING
  Fleet: "Site 7 PSU at 78 % cycle damage. Thermal residual +9 °C vs
          baseline for 11 days → suspected fan degradation.
          Recommend swap in next convoy (est. 14 Oct)."
        ↓
LEARNING
  Field residuals recalibrate the Forge GP model → next procurement
  cycle gets a better prediction

13. DECISION ENGINE
Envelope state machine (runs on STM32, 10 Hz, fully local):
Risk score (0–100, per asset, recomputed hourly):
R = w1·thermal_margin_deficit
  + w2·(cycle_damage_accum / budget)
  + w3·dielectric_margin_deficit
  + w4·battery_SoH_deficit
  + w5·thermal_residual_anomaly_z
  + w6·seu_correction_rate_z
Weights are per-asset-class and stored as editable config, not hard-coded — a DRDO user must be able to tune them without a firmware build.
Criticality gating — the governance rule: for criticality = mission_critical, the Guard never autonomously cuts power. It recommends, alarms, and logs; a human acts. For routine assets it acts and logs. This distinction is what makes the system acceptable to an operational unit, and it is the answer to the judge question "what if your system shuts down a radar during an incursion?"
Audit: every state transition writes (ts, asset, from_state, to_state, trigger_variable, trigger_value, threshold, actor) into the hash-chained log. Tamper-evident, exportable.

14. OFFLINE & LOW-CONNECTIVITY DESIGN
What works with zero internet, zero LAN, and zero server — indefinitely:
All Guard sensing, envelope evaluation, and actuation
Battery preconditioning and SoP-based cutoff
Dew-point power-up interlock
Charge inhibit below 0 °C
SEU scrubbing and ECC
Local OLED status + audible alarm
Telemetry logging to onboard NOR flash
Buffer maths: 48-byte Protobuf frame at 1/60 Hz = ~69 kB/day. A 16 MB W25Q128 holds ~230 days of nominal telemetry as a ring buffer. In PROTECT at 1 Hz it holds ~4 days — acceptable, and the state machine drops cadence back automatically after the event.
Sync protocol: on link-up, Guard publishes buffered frames oldest-first with QoS 1 and monotonic (device_id, seq). Server deduplicates on that key. Config changes carry a version vector; on conflict, server config wins for thresholds, device wins for calibration data (the device measured it; the server did not).
Edge inference: the RLS battery ECM and all physics evaluation run on-device. The GP residual model is not run on-device — instead the server pushes a compact per-asset correction polynomial (≤ 12 coefficients) that the Guard applies locally. If none has ever been pushed, the analytical model runs with a widened safety margin.
Field server tier: a fanless NUC in the shelter aggregates Guards over LAN/LoRa and runs the full Fleet UI with no WAN. HQ sync is a manual or scheduled push of a signed delta bundle.
Power interruption: Guard holds config in FRAM (no write-endurance or SEU concern), maintains a shadow of envelope state, and on brown-out completes the current flash write via a supercap-backed rail before resetting cleanly.

15. SECURITY ARCHITECTURE
Identity. Devices: X.509 client certs provisioned at commissioning; ESP32-S3 secure boot v2 + flash encryption with eFuse-burned keys (real, shipping silicon features). Humans: JWT with short-lived access tokens, refresh rotation, optional TOTP.
Authorization. RBAC with four roles — viewer, operator (ack alarms, clear LOCKOUT), engineer (edit thresholds, run Forge), admin (user + device lifecycle). Site-scoped: a Leh operator cannot see Siachen assets.
Data. TLS 1.3 in transit (mTLS device↔broker). At rest: PostgreSQL TDE or LUKS full-disk on the field server; MinIO SSE-S3.
APIs. Pydantic schema validation on every endpoint, per-token rate limiting via Redis, no dynamic SQL, CORS locked to the on-prem origin.
Devices. Per-device cert + rotating session key; firmware bundles signed (Ed25519), verified by the bootloader; anti-rollback counter in eFuse.
AI. Two concrete attacks are handled: (1) sensor spoofing — a faked cold reading could trick the system into permitting a charge that plates lithium. Countered by cross-sensor plausibility (battery NTC vs case TC vs ambient TC must be physically consistent) and rate-of-change limits. (2) residual-model poisoning via injected field telemetry — countered by device authentication plus robust (Huber) loss and outlier rejection in the retraining pipeline, with retrain gated on human approval.
Audit. Append-only, SHA-256 hash-chained event log; each day's head hash printed to the operator log. Tamper-evident without needing a blockchain — and we will say exactly that, because a judge will ask why we didn't use one.
Privacy. Zero PII. Telemetry is about equipment, not people. Operator identity appears only in the audit log, which is minimum-necessary. This is a genuine architectural advantage over most SIH entries and should be stated plainly.
Government deployment. Fully air-gappable; offline installer; no outbound calls; no third-party telemetry; no foreign-hosted map tiles or fonts. Do not claim MeitY empanelment, ISO 27001, or Common Criteria — we have not been audited. Say: "designed against these controls; certification is a post-SIH activity."

16. RELIABILITY ENGINEERING

17. SCALABILITY
100 users / ~500 assets (1 formation). Single field server, Docker Compose, Postgres+Timescale on one box. Telemetry ≈ 500 × 1,440 rows/day = 720 k rows/day — trivial. This is the SIH-realistic target and we should not build beyond it.
10,000 users / ~50,000 assets (Northern Command scale). Timescale compression on chunks > 7 days (expect 8–15× on this schema), continuous aggregates for the 1-min and 1-hour rollups, read replica for the Fleet UI. Mosquitto → EMQX cluster for connection count. Regional field servers, each autonomous, pushing signed deltas to a command tier. Hierarchical, not centralised — this matches how the Army is actually organised and how the links actually perform.
1 million users / national multi-agency (BSF, ITBP, BRO, telecom, power utilities). Partition Timescale by region; Kafka between ingest and processing to decouple bursts; Celery workers scale horizontally for Forge runs; MinIO distributed mode. The Forge stays stateless and is trivially replicated.
National deployment. The correct scaling axis here is not servers — it is the model library. The value compounds as the GP residual model is calibrated across more enclosure classes. Federated design: sites share model corrections, not raw telemetry. That sidesteps the classification problem entirely, because a thermal correction coefficient is not operationally sensitive.
Explicitly not doing for SIH: Kubernetes, Kafka, multi-region, service mesh. Building any of these during the hackathon would be a self-inflicted wound. We show the path on one slide and build the single-node version.

18. MVP → SIH → PRODUCTION
MVP (must exist before anything else)
Chamber holds 54 kPa ± 2 kPa at a stable ambient. One DUT board with a known resistive hotspot. Four thermocouples logging. Forge predicts hotspot ΔT from ρ. Prediction vs measurement plotted on one screen. That is the entire MVP, and if it works, the project is already defensible.
SIH VERSION (what we actually build)
Chamber: closed-loop P (30–101 kPa) + T (−25 °C base, −35 °C with dry-ice assist) + programmable diurnal cycling + UV lamp + solar-thermal lamp
Forge: thermal core, Paschen/clearance core, Coffin–Manson core, battery core; GP residual correction trained on ≥ 300 chamber points; PDF derating report generator
Guard ×2: full envelope state machine, battery preconditioning, SoP cutoff, dew-point interlock, charge inhibit, SEU-resilient firmware with fault-injection harness, store-and-forward
Drone energy bench: 4S pack, cold soak, realistic current profile, baseline vs Guard-managed comparison, loss-budget decomposition
HV coupon: graded-gap flashover demo
Fleet: 4 screens — Live Envelope, Asset Detail + RUL, Chamber Run Viewer, Forge Report
Offline: Guard fully autonomous, telemetry buffering demonstrated by physically unplugging the network
PRODUCTION VERSION
Qualified Guard LRU (conformal-coated, −55…+85 °C BOM, IP67, MIL-STD-810H campaign), commercial altitude-capable environmental chamber, full PKI with HSM-backed device provisioning, CAN/Modbus driver library for the top 20 fielded equipment types, federated model-sharing tier, integration with existing maintenance/ERP workflow.

19. WHAT TO BUILD — EXACTLY
MUST BUILD (project fails without these)
Vacuum chamber with closed-loop pressure control, 101 → 54 kPa, stable ±2 kPa
Cryo capability to at least −20 °C with a live powered DUT inside
8-channel calibrated thermocouple DAQ at 1 Hz with live plotting
Forge thermal core: ρ from measured P,T → convection derating → T_junction estimate
"Cold Air, Hot Chip" run reproducible on demand in under 3 minutes
Guard firmware: envelope state machine with all four states and reason-coded transitions
Battery cold-soak bench: capacity + R_int vs temperature, characterised over ≥ 4 temperature points
SoP-based cutoff vs terminal-voltage cutoff, A/B measured on the same pack
Battery preconditioning loop (heater film + thermostat + charge inhibit below 0 °C)
Telemetry pipeline: Guard → MQTT → Timescale → live UI
Store-and-forward proven by unplugging the network mid-run
Forge PDF derating report for one real reference asset
Loss-budget decomposition for the drone scenario, with every assumption listed on screen
SHOULD BUILD (high value, second priority)
HV coupon graded-gap flashover demo
GP residual model + confidence bands on Forge output
Coffin–Manson cycle-budget accumulation with live Miner's-rule counter
SEU fault-injection demo (corrupt a critical variable → detect → correct → log)
Dew-point power-up interlock, demonstrated by condensing moisture on a cold surface
Thermal-residual anomaly detection (block the fan intake → alert fires)
Hash-chained audit log with visible verification
UV accelerated-ageing run on cable jacket samples (start it early — it needs days)
FUTURE (roadmap slide only — build nothing)
Federated model sharing across sites
MIL-STD-810H / JSS 55555 formal qualification
CAN driver library for specific fielded equipment
Autonomous drone mission replanning from SoP
CFD-grade thermal model
Phase-change-material thermal buffering (mention in the hardening BOM; do not build)
DO NOT BUILD (ruthless)
❌ An actual flying drone. You cannot reproduce 5,500 m lift loss in a garage. Model the aero term, measure the energy term. Trying to fly will cost 3 days and prove nothing.
❌ Any deep-learning failure-prediction model. No dataset exists. It is an invitation to be destroyed in Q&A.
❌ Blockchain for the audit log. A hash chain does the same job. Saying "we deliberately didn't use blockchain, here's why" scores higher than using it.
❌ A mobile app. The Fleet web UI is responsive. A separate app is 4 days for zero judge value.
❌ Custom PCB fabrication for Guard. Perfboard or a protoboard shield. A fab turnaround failure kills the demo.
❌ Kubernetes / microservices / Kafka.
❌ Reaching −40 °C. Diminishing returns, exploding cost, and the physics story is fully told at −25 °C.
❌ A real solar simulator (AM1.5). A halogen lamp with an IR filter is honest as a thermal load. Do not call it a solar simulator.
❌ Actual radiation testing. Label the SEU work as firmware mitigation + fault injection. Claiming irradiation you didn't do is the fastest way to lose.

20. TECHNICAL IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Assumes ~5–6 weeks of pre-finale preparation plus the 36-hour finale. Effort in person-days.
Day 0 — Preparation
Phase 1 — Foundation (≈ week 1–2)
Phase 2 — Core System (≈ week 2–3)
Phase 3 — Intelligence (≈ week 3–4)
Phase 4 — Integration (≈ week 4–5)
Phase 5 — Testing (≈ week 5)
Full 72-hour combined-profile soak · fault injection on every row of the §16 table · calibration re-verification · 3 independent Forge-vs-chamber validation runs recorded · load test at 500 simulated devices · security self-review.
Phase 6 — Demo Hardening (final week + finale)
Demo rehearsed 12 times · every run recorded as fallback video · pre-chilled spare battery pack · spare Guard unit flashed and bench-tested · offline-capable demo laptop with local Docker stack · printed one-page physics cheat sheet for Q&A · Judge Attack Test (§27) drilled with the whole team.

21. SIX-MEMBER TEAM
M1 — Chamber & Mechanical Lead
Vacuum vessel assembly, leak-proofing, feedthroughs, cryo integration, pressure/thermal PID, safety SOP owner (vacuum, HV, dry ice). Owns the single highest-risk deliverable. Must start in week 1.
M2 — Embedded & Firmware Lead
Guard firmware (STM32 control loop + ESP32 comms), DAQ chain, SEU-resilient core, fault-injection harness, dew-point interlock, watchdogs and safe-state defaults.
M3 — Physics & Modelling Lead
Forge engine: convection/radiation, Paschen/clearance, Coffin–Manson, air properties. Owns the GP residual model and the validation-report methodology. Owns the numbers the team will be attacked on — must be able to derive h ∝ ρ^0.5 on a whiteboard.
M4 — Backend & Data Lead
FastAPI, Timescale schema, MQTT ingest, store-and-forward, auth/RBAC/audit chain, Docker/CI, offline installer bundle.
M5 — Frontend & Demo Lead
Fleet UI, live chamber viewer, Forge report layout, presentation deck. Demo owner — runs the 5 minutes, owns pacing, owns the fallback switch. Should not hold a P0 backend dependency in the final week.
M6 — Power, Battery & Integration Lead
Battery characterisation, e-load bench, RLS/SoP estimator, HV coupon, drone loss-budget bench. Integration owner — the single person accountable for the end-to-end path staying green.
Shared dependencies & backups
M3's model is consumed by M4 (API) and M5 (UI) → freeze the Forge output schema in week 2, before the model is finished. Contract-first.
M2 and M6 both touch the Guard hardware → M6 owns the board, M2 owns the firmware, one shared bring-up checklist.
Backup pairs: M1↔M6 (hardware), M2↔M6 (firmware), M3↔M4 (Python), M4↔M5 (full stack).
Rule: every member must be able to run the demo end-to-end alone. Drill it.

22. COST OPTIMIZATION
Ultra-Low-Cost Prototype — ₹21,500
Small acrylic vacuum desiccator (₹3,500) · diaphragm pump reaching ~60 kPa (₹3,000) · insulated cooler + dry ice (₹1,500) · ESP32 + 4× TC (₹2,500) · 1 DUT board (₹800) · 1 Li-ion pack + heater film (₹2,000) · sensors (₹1,500) · misc (₹2,000) · contingency (₹4,700).
Proves: Cold-Air-Hot-Chip, battery cold soak, envelope logic. Does not prove: UV, HV flashover, sustained thermal cycling.
Recommended SIH Prototype — ₹62,000–70,000
Full chamber BOM (~₹44,000 with freezer bought; ~₹30,000 if borrowed) · 2× Guard (~₹10,000) · battery/drone bench (~₹6,000) · HV coupon (~₹3,000) · consumables and spares (~₹7,000).
Production-Level Concept
Commercial altitude+temperature environmental chamber: ₹15–40 lakh (class-dependent). Qualified Guard LRU at volume: ₹8,000–15,000/unit. MIL-STD-810H test campaign: ₹6–20 lakh. These are order-of-magnitude planning figures, not quotations — NEEDS VERIFICATION with vendors.
Where the money should actually go
✅ Vacuum pump and vessel — this is the whole differentiator. Do not cheap out.
✅ Thermocouple accuracy and calibration — a ±5 °C measurement destroys the prediction-vs-reality story.
✅ Spares: a second pump seal kit, a second ESP32, a second battery pack.
❌ Do not buy a thermal camera. Borrow one, or use AMG8833 + TCs. A FLIR is ₹15–60k for marginal demo gain.
❌ Do not buy a freezer if any college lab, hostel mess, or team member's home has one.
❌ Do not buy a drone. The aero term is analytical; the energy term is bench-measurable.
❌ Do not buy a lab bench power supply if one can be borrowed.

23. COMPETITIVE DIFFERENTIATION
Competitor Approach A — "The Ruggedized Box"
Insulated enclosure with a heater and a temperature controller, plus a dashboard.
Our difference: we show that naive insulation is actively harmful — it raises internal temperature in summer at 57 kPa where convection is already down 35 %. Our Guard manages the cold/hot trade-off adaptively rather than optimising for one season.
Judge-visible advantage: we can display a measured plot where their approach makes things worse.
Competitor Approach B — "IoT + AI Predictive Maintenance"
ESP32 + sensors + cloud dashboard + LSTM predicting failures.
Our difference: we ask where the training data came from. Ours is physics-first with ML only as a bounded residual correction with published error bars. Also: we are air-gapped; they are on AWS, which is a non-starter for a forward post.
Judge-visible advantage: "Our model's mean absolute error is 3.6 °C against 340 measured points in our own chamber" versus "our model achieved 94 % accuracy" on unspecified data.
Competitor Approach C — "The Literature Review Deck"
A comprehensive, genuinely well-researched slide deck of mitigations, with a CAD render.
Our difference: we have hardware that runs. They will present the same facts we present — but we measure them live.
Judge-visible advantage: physical presence of a chamber, pump hum, live curves.
Competitor Approach D — "Drone-Specific Battery Warmer"
Heated pack for drones, flight-time improvement claimed.
Our difference: we decompose the 60→22 min loss into aero (~29 % more power for the same thrust), cold capacity loss, and premature voltage-sag cutoff — and we show which we can actually recover and which we cannot. Then we generalise to radar, BTS, and gensets.
Judge-visible advantage: quantitative honesty about the part we can't fix. Judges reward that more than optimism.
Why we are more than a standard implementation
The PS asks for modifications. A standard implementation lists them. We deliver the measurement loop that converts a list into engineering evidence, plus a retrofit that is deployable on equipment already at the LAC. We do not require DRDO to re-procure anything.
(Stated fairly: nothing here is impossible for another team to build. Our claim is that few will, because it requires committing to hardware early and to physics rather than to ML fashion.)

24. INNOVATION STACK
Layer 1 — Core Innovation
Replacing assertion with measurement in the HAA hardening workflow. Today, "this equipment is hardened for high altitude" is typically a datasheet claim validated (if at all) by temperature-only testing. HIMVAJRA introduces combined pressure-plus-temperature-plus-cycling validation at a cost that a unit workshop, not just a national lab, can afford.
Layer 2 — Technical Innovation
Three specific, defensible engineering contributions:
Physics-first prediction with an ML residual carrying calibrated uncertainty, so every derating number ships with a band derived from real measurements.
State-of-power cutoff instead of terminal-voltage cutoff. Cold packs trip LVC because R_int is high, not because energy is gone. Compensating for I·R_int(T) recovers real usable energy. (Magnitude to be quantified on our own bench — we will not quote a number we have not measured.)
Damage-budget accounting. Miner's-rule accumulation driven by measured diurnal ΔT converts "this looks worn" into "this asset has 22 % of its thermal-cycle budget left." That changes the maintenance conversation from reactive to scheduled — which, when your resupply is a convoy over a pass that closes in winter, is the whole game.
Layer 3 — Strategic Innovation
The Guard is a retrofit, so adoption does not require a procurement cycle. And the federated model-sharing design means value compounds across sites while sharing only correction coefficients — not classified telemetry. That is an architecture that can actually spread through the Army, BSF, ITBP, BRO, and civil telecom/power operators in Ladakh, Sikkim, Arunachal and Himachal without a data-classification fight.

25. DEMO ENGINEERING
0:00–0:30 — Problem + impact
Single slide, one sentence spoken: "At 5,500 m, air is at half the density of sea level. Every cooling calculation, every clearance spec, and every battery datasheet your equipment was designed against is wrong — and nobody is measuring by how much."
Show the PS's own drone figure: 60 min → 22 min.
0:30–1:00 — Existing workflow / limitation
"Today the options are: trust the datasheet, or send it to a national-lab environmental chamber with a months-long queue. Neither is available to a unit at the LAC." Show the ₹15–40 lakh figure next to our chamber.
1:00–1:45 — Our solution
30 seconds on the four subsystems and the closed loop. Then: "Rather than tell you it works, we'll measure it."
1:45–3:45 — LIVE DEMO
Demo 1 (0:00–1:00 of the block) — Cold Air, Hot Chip
Screen: left = Forge prediction card ("T_hotspot at 54 kPa: 71.4 °C ± 3.1 °C"); right = live dual-axis plot, pressure (descending) and hotspot temperature (ascending), with ambient temperature plotted flat as a third trace.
Hardware action: M1 starts the pump. Audible.
Input: DUT at constant 15 W. Ambient held.
Expected output: hotspot climbs from ~53 °C to ~70 °C. Prediction band drawn on the chart before the run.
What the judge should notice: the flat ambient trace. That line is the proof that only pressure changed.
Demo 2 (1:00–1:30) — Guard intervenes
Enable Guard. Envelope card flips NOMINAL → DERATED with reason code THERMAL_MARGIN_LOW. Fan duty jumps, non-critical load relay clicks audibly, hotspot curve bends back down under the limit line.
Judge should notice: the audible relay. Software claims are silent; hardware claims click.
Demo 3 (1:30–2:00) — Battery / drone
Pack at −20 °C. Run the drone current profile on both packs side by side: baseline (V-cutoff) vs Guard (preconditioned + SoP cutoff). Show the runtime delta as a live bar.
Then the loss-budget waterfall: 60 min → aero term → cold-capacity term → premature-cutoff term → 22 min, with our recovered portion highlighted in a different colour and the unrecoverable aero term explicitly labelled "we cannot fix this; thinner air is thinner air."
Judge should notice: we labelled our own limitation.
If time allows / as the closer: HV coupon, pressure drops, visible arc jumps a gap that was safe at sea level. Lights down. This is the image they remember.
3:45–4:30 — Technology + innovation
One architecture slide. Forge MAE against N measured chamber points. The air-gapped, no-cloud decision stated explicitly.
4:30–5:00 — Impact + scalability
Retrofit → no re-procurement. Hierarchical, offline-first → matches real Army topology. Federated corrections → no classified data leaves the site. Close on: "DIHAR is in Leh. This is designed to be validated there next." NEEDS VERIFICATION — confirm DIHAR's current mandate before naming it in the deck.

26. DEMO FAILURE RECOVERY
Fail-safe demo architecture, in priority order:
Honesty rules — non-negotiable:
Any pre-recorded segment is announced as recorded, with its date on screen.
The UV ageing and thermal-cycling results are shown as completed offline runs, clearly dated, because they take days.
Anything not physically connected is watermarked DEMO SIMULATION in the UI, in red, always visible.
The aerodynamic component of the drone loss budget is labelled MODELLED — NOT MEASURED, because we cannot reproduce 5,500 m lift in a chamber this size.
We do not claim any irradiation testing. SEU work is presented as firmware mitigation validated by fault injection, and we will say the word "emulated."
A judge who catches an overclaim discounts everything else you said. A team that pre-labels its own limits gets believed on the rest.

27. JUDGE ATTACK TEST
1. Why does this need to exist?
Because equipment qualified at sea level is deployed at 5,000 m with no intermediate verification step, and the failure modes are non-obvious — components run hotter in colder air. The verification capability exists only at a few national labs at ₹15–40 lakh per chamber.
2. Why can't the existing system do this?
Existing environmental chambers do temperature well and altitude rarely, and almost never both with a live powered DUT plus diurnal cycling. Separately: fielded equipment has no adaptive envelope control — it either runs or it doesn't.
3. Why is your approach technically superior?
It is physics-first and measurement-validated rather than data-driven on data that does not exist. Every claim we make has an error bar from our own chamber.
4. Where does your data come from?
Our chamber. Component datasheets. Measured P and T. We do not use any dataset we cannot show you. Standards tables for clearance correction and neutron flux are flagged NEEDS VERIFICATION and shipped as editable config, not hard-coded.
5. How accurate is it?
Target MAE < 4 °C on junction temperature with 95 % band coverage ≥ 90 %, measured on held-out chamber runs. We will report the actual number, including if it is worse.
6. What happens when the model is wrong?
Every output carries a confidence band, and the Guard's envelope thresholds are set from the conservative edge of that band, not the mean. Outside the calibrated domain, outputs are flagged EXTRAPOLATED and the margin widens.
7. What happens without internet?
Everything that matters keeps working. All control is local on the STM32. 16 MB of NOR flash buffers ~230 days of nominal telemetry. We will demonstrate this by unplugging the cable during the demo.
8. How does this scale?
Hierarchically — autonomous site servers under a command tier, which matches both the Army's structure and the actual link quality. Timescale compression and continuous aggregates handle the data volume. The thing that actually scales is the calibrated model library, shared federally as correction coefficients rather than raw telemetry.
9. How much does deployment cost?
Guard at volume: ₹8,000–15,000/unit (planning estimate, NEEDS VERIFICATION). Field server: commodity fanless PC. One validation chamber per formation workshop at our build cost, not lakh-scale. The economic argument is that a single prevented radar PSU failure in winter, when the pass is closed, exceeds this.
10. Who operates it?
Nobody, day to day — the Guard is autonomous. The Fleet UI is read-and-acknowledge, designed for a signals NCO. Forge is used by the technical staff at procurement/deployment planning time.
11. Who maintains it?
Unit-level: swap a Guard LRU, the config is in FRAM and restored from the server. Depot-level: recalibrate the chamber annually. No specialist skill needed for the field tier.
12. How secure is it?
mTLS device identity, secure boot with flash encryption, signed anti-rollback firmware, RBAC, hash-chained audit log, and zero PII. Fully air-gappable with no outbound calls. We are not certified against any standard and will not claim to be — certification is post-SIH work.
13. What happens if hardware fails?
Every actuator has a defined safe state on watchdog reset: fan on, heater off, charge off. Every sensor has a plausibility check and a conservative fallback. §16 is the full table; we have fault-injected every row.
14. What happens if users provide incorrect information?
Forge inputs are range-validated and the output flags physically implausible combinations. Any manual override of a safety interlock requires typed justification and is written to the audit chain.
15. Can the government realistically deploy it?
This is the strongest part of the answer: the Guard is a retrofit. It does not require re-procuring a single radar, base station or genset. It bolts on, speaks CAN/RS-485, and runs air-gapped.
16. What is actually implemented today?
The chamber with closed-loop pressure and temperature, the thermal and dielectric physics cores, the Guard envelope state machine with battery preconditioning and SoP cutoff, the telemetry pipeline with store-and-forward, and the Fleet UI. Demonstrated live.
17. What is only future scope?
Formal MIL-STD/JSS qualification, the CAN driver library for specific fielded equipment types, federated model sharing, phase-change thermal buffering, and CFD-grade modelling. Clearly marked on one slide.
18. What is genuinely innovative?
The affordable combined hypobaric-cryo validation loop; physics-first prediction with calibrated uncertainty rather than fabricated ML; state-of-power cutoff replacing voltage cutoff; and thermal-cycle damage budgeting from measured field ΔT.
19. Why can't another team reproduce it?
They can. Nothing here is secret. The barrier is that it requires committing to hardware in week 1 and to physics rather than ML, and accepting that the impressive-sounding features get cut. That is a discipline barrier, not a technical one — and we will say exactly that rather than pretend otherwise.
20. What if your central assumption is wrong?
Our central assumption is that low pressure meaningfully degrades convective cooling at realistic power densities. If it were wrong, our first chamber run would have shown a flat line — it did not. The secondary assumption, that retrofit is preferable to redesign, is a deployment judgement; if DRDO prefers redesign, the Forge is more useful in that world, not less.

28. TOP RISKS

29. VALIDATION
Problem alignment. Mapped against the PS's seven listed effects: (1) reduced cooling — Forge thermal core + Guard adaptive thermal, the wow factor; (2) insulation breakdown/arcing — Paschen core + HV coupon; (3) battery degradation — preconditioning + SoP cutoff + characterisation; (4) thermal cycling — Coffin–Manson + damage budget + Guard ΔT suppression; (5) radiation — SEU-resilient firmware + fault injection (mitigation only, honestly scoped); (6) communication — partially addressed only, via LoRa/store-and-forward for our own telemetry; we do not claim to solve antenna icing or RF propagation, and we will say so; (7) drone — loss-budget decomposition + energy bench. Six of seven addressed substantively. ✅ (with #6 explicitly scoped down)
Technical feasibility. Vacuum vessel, pump, PID, TC DAQ, FreeRTOS firmware, FastAPI, React — all standard undergraduate-accessible engineering. The hardest item is the leak-tight cryo-vacuum integration, which is mechanical patience rather than exotic skill. ✅
Data feasibility. We generate our own data. No dependency on any external dataset, API, or government system. ✅ (Standards constants flagged.)
Hardware feasibility. Every part is available from Indian suppliers. Total under ₹70,000. Nothing requires fabrication beyond drilling and potting. ✅
AI feasibility. GP regression on 300–1,000 points is trivially trainable on a laptop. RLS on an STM32 is standard practice. No deep learning, no GPU, no dataset dependency. ✅
Cost. ✅ (₹21.5k floor, ₹68k recommended.)
Scalability. Hierarchical, offline-first, single-node-to-federated path is clear and does not require building any of it now. ✅
Security. Air-gapped by design, mTLS, secure boot, hash-chained audit, zero PII. No unverified compliance claims. ✅
Demo. Three independent demos, any one of which stands alone. Cold-Air-Hot-Chip runs in under 3 minutes. ✅
Innovation. Measurement loop, calibrated-uncertainty prediction, SoP cutoff, damage budgeting — all defensible engineering, none cosmetic. ✅
Removed during validation: a "digital twin" 3D visualisation (cosmetic), an LLM maintenance assistant (no value, high risk), blockchain audit (hash chain is sufficient), an actual flying drone (infeasible), and the claim to solve RF propagation/antenna icing (outside our competence and unbuildable here).

FINAL BUILD BLUEPRINT
Product
HIMVAJRA — High-Altitude Integrated Monitoring, Validation And Junction-thermal Resilience Architecture. Four subsystems: CHAMBER, FORGE, GUARD, FLEET.
One-Line Solution
A failure-physics platform that predicts how electronics degrade at 3,000–6,000 m, proves it in a hypobaric-cryo chamber we built, and prevents it with a retrofit hardening controller fittable to equipment already deployed at the LAC.
Core Architecture
Closed validation loop: Forge predicts → Chamber measures → residual recalibrates Forge → Guard enforces the envelope in the field → field telemetry recalibrates Forge again. Fully air-gapped, offline-first, hierarchical (device → site server → command tier).
Core Technologies
FastAPI · PostgreSQL + TimescaleDB · MQTT/Mosquitto · Redis · MinIO · React + TypeScript + Plotly + MapLibre (offline tiles) · Docker Compose (single-node, offline installer) · ESP-IDF/FreeRTOS on ESP32-S3 · bare-metal STM32G4 · CAN/RS-485 · Protobuf telemetry.
AI
Minority, physics-first, three components only: Gaussian Process residual correction with calibrated uncertainty (design-time, server); RLS Thévenin battery ECM for state-of-power (runtime, on-MCU); Isolation Forest anomaly detection on per-asset physics residual. No deep learning. No LLM. No model trained on data we do not possess.
Hardware
2-gallon full-vacuum-rated vessel + rotary-vane pump + proportional bleed valve (PID, 30–101 kPa) · chest freezer cryo shell + PTC heater (−25 to +55 °C, programmable diurnal ramp) · UV-A/B array + halogen solar-thermal load · 8× K-type TC + AMG8833 + INA228 + DIY electronic load · graded-gap HV coupon (<500 µA, interlocked) · Guard: ESP32-S3 + STM32G4 + FRAM + NOR + BMP390 + SHT45 + heater films + fan PWM + load-shed relays + Gore-type pressure-equalisation vent.
Database
PostgreSQL 16 + TimescaleDB (telemetry and chamber hypertables, 1-min and 1-h continuous aggregates, compression after 7 days) · Redis (live envelope cache) · MinIO (raw runs, signed firmware bundles).
Biggest Innovation
Bringing combined pressure + temperature + cycling validation within reach of a unit workshop, and using it to give every derating number a measured error bar — plus state-of-power cutoff replacing terminal-voltage cutoff, and thermal-cycle damage budgeting from measured field ΔT.
WOW Demo
"Cold Air, Hot Chip." Ambient held flat, power held constant, pressure dropped 101 → 54 kPa, and the measured hotspot temperature climbs ~15–20 °C onto a prediction band drawn beforehand. Then Guard flips to DERATED, the load-shed relay clicks audibly, and the curve bends back under the limit.
MVP
Chamber holds 54 kPa at stable ambient · one instrumented DUT · Forge predicts hotspot ΔT from ρ · prediction vs measurement on one screen.
SIH Build
Full chamber (P + T + cycling + UV) · Forge (thermal, Paschen, Coffin–Manson, battery cores + GP residual + PDF report) · 2× Guard with the four-state envelope machine, battery preconditioning, SoP cutoff, dew-point interlock, SEU-resilient firmware · drone loss-budget bench · HV flashover coupon · Fleet UI (4 screens) · store-and-forward proven by unplugging the network.
Future Scope
MIL-STD-810H / JSS 55555 qualification · CAN driver library for fielded equipment types · federated correction-coefficient sharing · phase-change thermal buffering · CFD-grade modelling · DIHAR field validation in Leh.
Estimated Cost
₹68,000 (recommended SIH prototype). Floor: ₹21,500. Production chamber concept: ₹15–40 lakh, NEEDS VERIFICATION.
Development Complexity
High — driven by the cryo-vacuum mechanical integration, not by the software.
Biggest Risk
Vacuum subsystem lead time or leak failure. It is the single point on which the entire differentiator rests.
Mitigation
Order in week 1. Leak-test before any other work begins. Maintain a diaphragm-pump + small-desiccator backup path that still reaches 60 kPa (30 % density loss — enough to prove the physics). Keep the battery bench fully independent of the chamber so Demo 3 survives a total chamber failure.
Team Allocation
M1 Chamber & Mechanical (+ safety owner) · M2 Embedded & Firmware · M3 Physics & Modelling · M4 Backend & Data · M5 Frontend & Demo owner · M6 Power/Battery & Integration owner. Backup pairs M1↔M6, M2↔M6, M3↔M4, M4↔M5. Every member must be able to run the demo alone.

FINAL "BUILD THIS" CHECKLIST
text
[ ] Vacuum pump + vessel ORDERED (week 1 — do this today)
[ ] Written safety SOP signed: vacuum, HV, Li-ion, dry ice
[ ] Vessel leak-tested: holds 54 kPa, leak < 1 kPa/min
[ ] Pressure PID: ±2 kPa hold, scriptable altitude profile
[ ] Cryo shell integrated; −20 °C with live powered DUT inside
[ ] 8× thermocouple DAQ calibrated to ±1 °C (ice-point verified)
[ ] Forge output schema FROZEN (week 2, before model is finished)
[ ] Forge thermal core predicts hotspot from measured P and T
[ ] *** FIRST COLD-AIR-HOT-CHIP RUN: prediction vs measurement ***
[ ] Guard firmware: 4-state envelope machine with reason codes
[ ] Actuator safe-states verified on watchdog reset
[ ] Battery characterised: R_int(T), C_usable(T), ≥4 temperature points
[ ] SoP cutoff vs V-cutoff A/B measured on the same pack
[ ] Charge-inhibit below 0 °C — verified, non-overridable without log
[ ] Telemetry: Guard → MQTT → Timescale → live UI, end to end
[ ] Store-and-forward proven by physically unplugging the network
[ ] Auth + RBAC + hash-chained audit log working
[ ] GP residual model trained on ≥300 chamber points; MAE reported honestly
[ ] Coffin–Manson damage budget accumulating from measured ΔT
[ ] SEU fault-injection: detect → correct → log, demonstrated
[ ] Dew-point power-up interlock demonstrated on a real cold surface
[ ] HV coupon flashover run recorded (live only if interlocks pass review)
[ ] UV ageing run STARTED early (it needs days)
[ ] Drone loss-budget waterfall built, aero term labelled MODELLED
[ ] Every §16 failure row fault-injected and observed
[ ] All DEMO SIMULATION watermarks in place and visible
[ ] Full 72-hour combined-profile soak completed
[ ] Fallback video recorded for every live segment, dated on screen
[ ] Spare Guard flashed; spare battery pre-soaked; spare laptop synced
[ ] Demo rehearsed 12 times, including 3 rehearsals with induced failures
[ ] Judge Attack Test (all 20) drilled with the whole team
[ ] Every member can run the full demo alone

Three things to do in the next 48 hours: order the vacuum pump and vessel, write the safety SOP, and have M3 derive the convection-derating equations on a whiteboard for the whole team. Everything else is downstream of those.
If it would help, I can turn this into a shareable doc, or go deeper on any single piece — the Forge equation set, the Guard firmware state machine, or the chamber's mechanical build.
is there any way to use jetson orin nano in this?
Yes, and there's one use that's clearly worth it. But first, three places it should not go.
Where the Orin Nano does not belong
Not as the Guard controller. It boots Linux, so your control loop loses determinism; it draws 7–25 W, so it needs active cooling in a box whose whole purpose is surviving degraded cooling; and at roughly ₹40,000–50,000 for a dev kit it consumes two-thirds of your prototype budget for a job an STM32G4 does better at ₹550. NEEDS VERIFICATION: the Orin Nano module is rated to a lower minimum temperature than the dev kit carrier board, which is commercial-range. Check both before putting either in a −20 °C chamber.
Not as the chamber controller. The Pi 4 is doing PID and SPI reads. There is no compute problem to solve.
Not for the GP residual model or anomaly detection. Gaussian Process regression on 600 points and an Isolation Forest run on a CPU in milliseconds. Adding a GPU here is exactly the "technology because it sounds impressive" failure mode.
Where it belongs: make it the flagship DUT
This is the strong answer, and it materially upgrades your wow factor.
Right now "Cold Air, Hot Chip" runs on a resistive heater board. It proves the physics but the artefact is boring. The PS explicitly lists the affected systems as computers and servers, telecom base stations, radar systems, power electronics, military communication systems. An Orin Nano is one of those. It is the exact class of edge-compute box the Army is fielding for drone payloads, surveillance and sensor fusion along the LAC.
Put it in the chamber instead, and your headline claim changes from "a resistor got 18 °C hotter" to:
"Your ₹50,000 edge-AI module loses X % of its inference throughput at 5,000 m, and it does so while the air around it is at −15 °C."
That is a far harder sentence for a DRDO judge to walk past.
Why it's an unusually good DUT
The Jetson instruments itself. You get, with no added sensors:
Multiple on-die thermal zones via /sys/devices/virtual/thermal/thermal_zone*/temp, including junction temperature
Per-rail power via tegrastats (CPU, GPU, SOC)
Observable DVFS behaviour and thermal throttling
nvpmodel power caps (7 W / 15 W / 25 W class modes) as a controllable variable
jetson_clocks to lock clocks and disable DVFS
That last pair is what makes this experimentally rigorous rather than a demo stunt. You run two experiments on the same hardware:
Experiment A — clocks locked (jetson_clocks), fixed workload.
Isolates pure thermal physics. Power dissipation is held genuinely constant, so the junction-temperature rise as pressure drops is a clean measurement of convective degradation. This is your Forge validation run, and it is better than the resistor because you know the dissipated power precisely from tegrastats rather than from V×I into a heater.
Experiment B — DVFS enabled, same workload.
Isolates operational impact. The SoC defends itself by throttling, so junction temperature stays roughly pinned at its limit and the throughput collapses instead. You plot inference FPS against pressure. This is the number that matters to an operator, and nobody else in the room will have measured it.
Running both, and explaining why you ran both, is the part that reads as engineering rather than hackathon theatre.
The closed loop this unlocks
Your Demo 2 currently ends with a load-shed relay clicking. Good, but crude. With a Jetson as the DUT, Guard's DERATED action becomes an actual intelligent intervention:
Guard detects thermal margin loss at 54 kPa
        ↓
Fan to 100 %  (recovers less than it does at sea level — show this)
        ↓
Still outside envelope
        ↓
Guard commands nvpmodel 15 W → 7 W over UART/RS-485
        ↓
Jetson exits thermal throttling, clocks stabilise
        ↓
Throughput settles at a LOWER but SUSTAINED and PREDICTABLE level
The story is: uncontrolled, the box oscillates between throttle and recover, so throughput is unstable and unpredictable. Under Guard, you trade peak performance for a deterministic performance floor. For a mission-critical asset, predictable-and-lower beats erratic-and-sometimes-higher every time. Judges understand that immediately, and it is a real systems-engineering argument, not a feature.
It also gives Guard a third actuation class alongside fan control and load shedding: compute derating. That generalises to any managed host over CAN/RS-485, which strengthens the retrofit story.
Secondary use: the drone payload energy term
Your §7 loss-budget waterfall currently has aero, cold-capacity and premature-cutoff terms. A Jetson-class companion computer adds a measurable fourth:
Its cooling fan draws more power for less effective airflow at 54 kPa
Leakage current rises with junction temperature, so the same workload costs more energy
Throttling means more wall-clock seconds of flight per inference task completed
So the payload's share of the energy budget grows at altitude while the pack's capacity shrinks. Measure it on the bench with your INA228 and it becomes a fourth bar on the waterfall, sourced from real numbers.
One bonus finding worth checking
Conventional spinning hard drives use an air bearing to fly the read head, and their datasheets typically carry a maximum operating altitude in the ~3,000 m range. If that holds for the drives actually in fielded systems, it is a concrete, citable, non-obvious failure mode for the PS's "computers and servers" category that costs you nothing to include. NEEDS VERIFICATION — pull two or three real datasheets rather than asserting it.
Practical cautions
Decision rule
If your college or team already has an Orin Nano, or you can borrow one: use it, and make it the centrepiece DUT. It is the single highest-leverage change available to this blueprint, because it converts an abstract physics demo into a demonstration on exactly the hardware class the PS names.
If you would have to buy one: don't. Spend that ₹45,000 on a better vacuum pump, proper thermocouple calibration and spares. The physics argument stands on a resistor board; the Jetson makes it vivid, not valid. A Raspberry Pi 5 under sustained load is a weaker but workable substitute at under ₹8,000, and it also self-reports temperature and throttling state.
Either way, do not let the Jetson near the Guard's control path.
Want me to rewrite §7 (the wow factor), §19 (must-build) and §25 (the demo script) with the Jetson as the primary DUT, so the two experiments and the nvpmodel intervention are properly folded into the build plan?
Drafting final content for two presentation slides.
SLIDE 3 — TECHNICAL APPROACH
Layout: Architecture diagram left (55%) · calculated-physics table right-top (45%) · stack grid right-bottom (45%). Equation strip runs as a thin band under the architecture.

PROPOSED SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
╔═ VALIDATE ══════════════════════════════════════════╗
║  Vacuum vessel + rotary pump + proportional bleed    ║
║  Cryo shell + PTC heater · UV-A/B · solar-thermal    ║
║  8× K-type TC · IR array · INA228 · HV gap coupon    ║
╚═══════════════════════════╤══════════════════════════╝
             measured  P, T, ΔT, V, I, flashover
                            ▼
╔═ PREDICT ═══════════════════════════════════════════╗
║  FORGE — thermal RC network · Paschen · Coffin–      ║
║  Manson · battery ECM  + GP residual correction      ║
║  → derating report · hardening BOM · RUL curve       ║
╚═══════════════════════════╤══════════════════════════╝
                   envelope thresholds
                            ▼
╔═ PROTECT ═══════════════════════════════════════════╗
║  GUARD  (STM32G431 control + ESP32-S3 comms)         ║
║  NOMINAL → DERATED → PROTECT → LOCKOUT               ║
║  fan · heater film · load shed · charge inhibit ·    ║
║  compute derate · dew-point power-up hold            ║
╚═══════════════════════════╤══════════════════════════╝
     MQTT / LoRa · store-and-forward (~230 day buffer)
                            ▼
      FIELD SERVER (on-prem, air-gapped) → FLEET UI
ILLUSTRATIVE — PROPOSED ARCHITECTURE

GOVERNING PHYSICS — the basis of every number in this deck
ρ = P / (R·T)                            air density from measured P, T
h ∝ ρ^0.5 natural   ·   h ∝ ρ^0.8 forced      convection derating
V_breakdown = f(p·d)                     Paschen — arc risk vs altitude
N_f = C·(Δε_p)^(−n)·f(T_mean)            Coffin–Manson / Norris–Landzberg
V_term = V_ocv − I·R_int(T)              → state-of-power, not voltage, cutoff

CALCULATED THERMAL PENALTY vs SEA LEVEL
Worked example: a 15 W hotspot with sea-level θ_sa = 3.0 °C/W rises from 45 °C to ≈63 °C above ambient at 5,500 m, forced-cooled — with no change in ambient temperature and no change in power.
This is the PS's first listed failure mode, quantified.
CALCULATED — NOT MEASURED

TECHNOLOGY STACK

IMPLEMENTATION FLOW
BOM + deployment profile → FORGE predicts (with band) → CHAMBER measures
→ residual recalibrates model → GUARD thresholds set at conservative edge
→ field telemetry → damage accumulation → maintenance scheduled

Slide 3 notes
The calculated table is the dominant element. Give it the orange accent column and more visual weight than the stack grid.
Do not put UI screenshots, library versions, or Docker/CI detail on this slide.
Keep "AI/ML" in the same type size as every other stack row. Shrinking it visually is the point — this is a physics project.


SLIDE 4 — FEASIBILITY AND VIABILITY
Layout: Four feasibility quadrants left (45%) · risk table right (55%) · build timeline full-width bottom band · scalability ladder as a thin strip beneath.

FEASIBILITY
Technical
Vacuum PID, thermocouple DAQ, FreeRTOS firmware, FastAPI — all standard undergraduate engineering. Hardest item is leak-tight cryo-vacuum integration: mechanical patience, not specialist skill. Every component off-the-shelf from Indian suppliers.
Operational
Guard runs autonomously, zero operator input. Fleet UI is read-and-acknowledge, designed for a signals NCO. Mission-critical assets are never shut down autonomously — the system recommends and logs; a human acts.
Financial
Prototype ₹68,000 · floor ₹21,500 · Guard at volume ₹8,000–15,000/unit (planning estimate — NEEDS VERIFICATION). No recurring cloud cost.
Deployment
Retrofit over CAN / RS-485. No re-procurement of any fielded equipment. Air-gapped, offline installer, no outbound network calls, zero PII.

BUILD PLAN TO WORKING PROTOTYPE
 WEEK 1        WEEK 2         WEEK 3        WEEK 4        WEEK 5
 Order pump    Pressure PID   Cryo shell    Guard v1      End-to-end
 + vessel      ±2 kPa hold    integrated    firmware      integration
 Safety SOP    TC array       ─── GATE ───  Battery       Fault
 Forge model   calibrated     first pred.   bench ·       injection
 equations     to ±1 °C       vs measured   SoP cutoff    Demo ready
Validation gate — end of week 3: hold 54 kPa with a live powered board inside and ambient held flat, then compare the measured hotspot rise against the Forge prediction.
If that single run works, the concept is proven and everything after it is engineering.

RISKS AND MITIGATION

SCALABILITY
PROTOTYPE ──► UNIT PILOT ──► FORMATION ──► COMMAND ──► MULTI-AGENCY
 1 chamber     ~50 assets     ~500 assets   ~50,000      BSF / ITBP / BRO
 2 Guards      1 field srv    Timescale     regional     telecom, power
               single node    compression   servers +    federated model
                              + rollups     command tier corrections
What scales is the calibrated model library, not the server count. Sites exchange correction coefficients, not raw telemetry — so no data-classification conflict arises.

Slide 4 notes
The build timeline is the most important element on this slide. With no prototype, it is what replaces hardware as proof of seriousness. Give it the full bottom band and mark the week-3 gate in orange.
Every risk in the table has a named, specific fallback. Do not add generic risks like "time management" or "team coordination" — they dilute the four that matter.
The ₹68,000 figure should be typographically large. Cost is the single strongest feasibility argument you have, since it sits against a lakh-scale alternative.
Do not claim national deployment without the coefficient-sharing line directly beneath it. That sentence is what makes the claim defensible.

Most likely question on these two slides: "Where did +74% come from?"
Have whoever owns the physics able to derive it live: Nusselt correlation for forced convection gives h ∝ Re^0.8, Reynolds number scales with density, density halves at 5,500 m, so h drops by 2^−0.8 ≈ 0.574, and thermal resistance is the inverse — a 74% increase. Thirty seconds at a whiteboard, and it is the moment the deck stops being a proposal and starts being engineering.


--- TABLE ---
Subsystem | What it is
HIMVAJRA CHAMBER | A real hypobaric + cryogenic + thermal-cycling test rig we build ourselves
HIMVAJRA FORGE | A failure-physics engine that predicts how any given board/box degrades at altitude
HIMVAJRA GUARD | A bolt-on retrofit controller that keeps already-fielded equipment inside its safe envelope
HIMVAJRA FLEET | Offline-first ops layer: envelope status + remaining-useful-life per deployed asset

--- TABLE ---
Alternative | Why rejected
"Ruggedized enclosure + heater" product | Solves one asset class. PS says "equipment and systems." Also: naive insulation causes summer thermal runaway at low pressure. Actively wrong.
Pure IoT dashboard + LSTM failure prediction | No training data exists for HAA failures. The model would be fiction. Judges will ask for the dataset and the answer is "we don't have one." Fatal.
Full CFD / ANSYS digital twin | Not buildable by students in the timeframe; not validatable; and a twin with no ground truth is a rendering, not a twin.
Battery heater jacket for drones only | Too narrow, already commercially available, zero technical depth.
Design-tool-only (software) | Feels like a dodge on a hardware PS. DRDO will ask "what did you actually build?"

--- TABLE ---
Altitude | P (kPa) | ρ/ρ₀ (same T) | θ_sa increase, natural | θ_sa increase, forced
Sea level | 101.3 | 1.00 | — | —
3,000 m | 70.1 | 0.69 | +20 % | +33 %
4,500 m | 57.7 | 0.57 | +32 % | +56 %
5,500 m | 50.5 | 0.50 | +41 % | +74 %

--- TABLE ---
Component | Model | Qty | Purpose | Comms | ≈ Cost (₹)
Vacuum vessel | 2-gal degassing chamber, PC lid, full-vac rated | 1 | Pressure envelope (operated at ½ vac → 2× margin) | — | 7,000
Vacuum pump | Single-stage rotary vane, ¼ HP | 1 | Pull to 30 kPa | — | 8,000
Cryo shell | Chest freezer 100 L (or borrowed) | 1 | −20 … −24 °C base | Relay | 14,000
Cryo assist | Dry-ice pocket + insulated jacket | — | Reach −35 °C for short soaks | — | 1,500
Abs. pressure sensor | BMP390 + MPX5100AP | 2 | Redundant P control/safety | I²C / ADC | 2,000
Bleed valve | 12 V proportional solenoid + needle valve | 1 | PID pressure control | PWM | 2,200
Feedthroughs | KF-25 / epoxy-potted 16-pin | 2 | Power + signal into vacuum | — | 2,500
Thermocouples | K-type + MAX31855 | 8 | Case/hotspot/ambient | SPI | 4,000
Thermal array | AMG8833 8×8 | 1 | Spatial hotspot map | I²C | 1,200
Controller | Raspberry Pi 4 (lab side) | 1 | Chamber PID + DAQ + MQTT | Eth/WiFi | 6,000
Heater | 200 W PTC + SSR | 1 | Ramp-up / thermal cycling | PWM | 1,500
UV source | UV-A 365 nm + UV-B LED array 20 W | 1 | Accelerated polymer/cable ageing | PWM | 2,500
Solar-thermal | 150 W halogen + IR filter | 1 | Enclosure solar gain | Relay | 1,200
E-load | DIY 150 W constant-current/power sink | 1 | Battery + PSU profiling | UART | 3,500
HV coupon rig | 0–10 kV current-limited (<500 µA) + interlock | 1 | Paschen / flashover demo | GPIO | 2,800

--- TABLE ---
Component | Model | Qty | Purpose | Comms | ≈ Cost (₹)
Comms MCU | ESP32-S3-WROOM (ind. −40…+85) | 1 | Telemetry, logging, OTA | WiFi/MQTT | 700
Control MCU | STM32G431 | 1 | Deterministic envelope loop, ECM | CAN/UART | 550
Config memory | FM25V10 FRAM 1 Mbit | 1 | SEU-immune config store | SPI | 450
Buffer memory | W25Q128 NOR flash | 1 | Store-and-forward ring buffer | SPI | 150
Power monitor | INA228 (20-bit) | 2 | Bus V/I, R_int estimation | I²C | 900
Env sensor | BMP390 + SHT45 | 1 ea | Abs P, RH → dew point | I²C | 1,300
Thermal | K-type ×4 + MAX31855 ×4 | 4 | Case/junction proxy/battery | SPI | 2,000
Heater film | Polyimide 12 V 20 W | 2 | Battery + display preconditioning | PWM/MOSFET | 800
Fan driver | 4× PWM MOSFET, tacho input | 1 | Adaptive forced convection | PWM | 400
Load shed | 2× 30 A automotive relay | 2 | Non-critical load cut | GPIO | 500
Long-range link | LoRa SX1276 (optional) | 1 | Remote sites with no LAN | SPI | 900
Enclosure | IP67 ABS + Gore-type pressure vent | 1 | Sealed but pressure-equalised | — | 1,200

--- TABLE ---
State | Entry condition | Actions | Human involvement
NOMINAL | All margins > 20 % | Passive monitor, 1/60 Hz telemetry | None
DERATED | T_j est. within 20 % of limit or SoP below mission reserve or P_abs below profile floor | Fan → 100 %, non-critical loads shed, telemetry → 1 Hz, operator notified | Notify only
PROTECT | T_j est. > limit − 5 °C or batt T < 0 °C with charge requested or dew-point margin < 2 °C or arc-risk flag | Charge inhibit / HV inhibit / power-up hold / forced throttle. Timestamped, reason-coded | Notify + reason shown
LOCKOUT | Hard limit breach, sensor disagreement, or damage accum > 95 % | Cut non-safety power. Requires explicit operator ack to clear | Operator must acknowledge

--- TABLE ---
Failure | Detection | System response | Recovery
Thermocouple open/short | MAX31855 fault bits + plausibility vs peers | Drop that channel, recompute with remaining; envelope → conservative | Auto-rejoin on valid reads; maintenance ticket after 3 events
Pressure sensor disagreement | BMP390 vs MPX5100AP Δ > 3 kPa | Chamber: vent + halt. Guard: use higher (more conservative) altitude | Operator recalibration workflow
Battery NTC fails | Resistance out of range / frozen value | Charge inhibit unconditionally (fail-safe: never charge on unknown temp) | Manual override with typed justification, logged
Fan seized | Tacho pulse loss or thermal residual > +8 °C for 30 min | DERATED → load shed; alert "suspected airflow fault" | Ticket; asset flagged in Fleet
STM32 control loop hang | ESP32 heartbeat monitor + IWDG | Watchdog reset; actuators default to safe (fan on, heater off, charge off) | Dual-bank firmware rollback after 3 boot failures
SEU bit flip in config | CRC32 on FRAM config block + triple-redundant critical vars with majority vote | Restore from majority / FRAM golden copy; increment SEU counter | Counter exported as health metric; no user action
MQTT broker unreachable | Publish timeout + LWT | Buffer to NOR ring; all control continues locally | Store-and-forward, oldest-first, on reconnect
Field server down | Prometheus alert; Guards flag uplink loss on OLED | Zero control impact — Guards are autonomous | Docker restart policy; Postgres WAL + nightly dump to MinIO
Database corruption | PG checksums + startup integrity check | Read-only mode, serve last cached envelope states | Restore from WAL + base backup
Forge model unavailable | API health check | Fall back to analytical-only with widened band, banner in UI | Restart Celery worker
Mains power loss (site) | INA228 bus voltage collapse | Graceful shutdown; supercap completes flash write; log the event as a thermal-cycle trigger | Auto-resume; Guard re-preconditions before re-enabling loads
Duplicate/replayed telemetry | (device_id, seq) unique constraint | Silently deduplicate, count | —
Conflicting config (device vs server) | Version-vector mismatch | Thresholds: server wins. Calibration: device wins. Both logged | Engineer reviews conflict queue
Chamber over-pressure/implosion risk | Vessel operated at ≤ 50 % of rated vacuum; lid interlock | Hard vent on any interlock break | Manual inspection before next run
HV rig exposure | Lid-closed interlock + dead-man + <500 µA current limit | HV rail cannot energise with lid open | Key-switch arming only

--- TABLE ---
Task | Owner | Pri | Dep | Output | Eff | Risk
Order long-lead items (pump, vessel, freezer, feedthroughs) | M1 | P0 | — | PO placed | 0.5 | High — vacuum pump lead time can kill the project. Order week 1.
Repo, CI, Docker Compose skeleton, schema v0 | M4 | P0 | — | docker compose up works | 1 | Low
Physics literature pass; write model equations + assumptions doc | M3 | P0 | — | Signed-off equation set | 2 | Med
Safety review: vacuum + HV + dry ice + Li-ion | M1+M6 | P0 | — | Written SOP, interlock list | 1 | High — non-negotiable
Source datasheets for 15 reference components | M3 | P1 | — | Component DB seeded | 1 | Low

--- TABLE ---
Task | Owner | Pri | Dep | Output | Eff | Risk
Assemble vessel + pump + feedthroughs; leak test | M1 | P0 | Day 0 | Holds 54 kPa for 10 min, leak < 1 kPa/min | 3 | High
Pressure PID (bleed valve) on Pi | M1 | P0 | ↑ | ±2 kPa hold, scriptable profile | 2 | Med
TC array + MAX31855 chain; ice-point calibration | M2 | P0 | — | ±1 °C accuracy verified | 2 | Med
Forge: ISA/ideal-gas ρ model + convection derating | M3 | P0 | Day 0 | predict_delta_T() unit-tested | 2 | Low
FastAPI + Timescale hypertables + MQTT consumer | M4 | P0 | Day 0 | Telemetry lands in DB | 2 | Low
React shell + live Plotly stream | M5 | P0 | ↑ | Live trace renders | 2 | Low
DUT board: resistive hotspot + heatsink + fan, instrumented | M6 | P0 | — | Known-power DUT | 1.5 | Low

--- TABLE ---
Task | Owner | Pri | Dep | Output | Eff | Risk
Integrate freezer as cryo shell; thermal PID + ramp | M1 | P0 | P1 | −20 °C with pressure control active | 3 | High — condensation/frost on feedthroughs
First "Cold Air, Hot Chip" run | M1+M3 | P0 | ↑ | Measured curve vs prediction | 1 | Critical gate
Guard v1 firmware: sensors + envelope state machine | M2 | P0 | — | 4 states, reason codes, OLED | 4 | Med
Battery bench: e-load + cold soak + characterisation sweeps | M6 | P0 | P1 | R_int(T), C_usable(T) tables | 3 | Med
Forge: Paschen + clearance module | M3 | P1 | — | Gap/pressure evaluation | 2 | Low
Asset registry + Forge report generator | M4 | P1 | P1 | PDF report | 2 | Low
Fleet UI: Live Envelope + Asset Detail screens | M5 | P0 | P1 | 2 screens usable | 3 | Low

--- TABLE ---
Task | Owner | Pri | Dep | Output | Eff | Risk
Automated chamber sweep script → 300+ labelled points | M1+M2 | P0 | P2 | Training dataset | 2 | Med
GP residual model + confidence bands | M3 | P1 | ↑ | MAE < 4 °C, 95 % coverage | 2 | Med
RLS battery ECM on STM32; SoP estimator | M6 | P0 | P2 | SoC err < 8 % @ −20 °C | 3 | High
SoP-cutoff vs V-cutoff A/B experiment | M6 | P0 | ↑ | Measured runtime delta | 1.5 | Med
Coffin–Manson + Miner accumulation | M3 | P1 | — | Cycle-budget counter | 1.5 | Med
SEU-resilient firmware core + fault injector | M2 | P1 | P2 | Detect/correct/log demo | 2 | Low
Dew-point interlock | M2 | P1 | P2 | Demonstrable hold | 1 | Low

--- TABLE ---
Task | Owner | Pri | Dep | Output | Eff | Risk
End-to-end: Chamber + Guard + server + UI, one run | M6 (integration owner) | P0 | P1–3 | Green path | 3 | High
Store-and-forward under forced disconnect | M4 | P0 | ↑ | Zero data loss proven | 1.5 | Med
Auth, RBAC, audit chain | M4 | P1 | ↑ | Roles enforced | 2 | Low
HV coupon + interlocks + flashover run | M1+M6 | P2 | P2 | Recorded + live-capable | 2 | High (safety)
Drone loss-budget calculator + visualisation | M3+M5 | P0 | P3 | Waterfall chart | 1.5 | Low
UV ageing run (start early, runs in background) | M1 | P2 | P1 | Before/after coupon samples | 0.5 | Low

--- TABLE ---
Failure | Recovery
Internet dies | Zero impact by design. Entire stack is local Docker on the demo laptop. Say so out loud — it is a feature.
Vacuum pump fails | Pre-recorded full run video, timestamped, with the raw CSV open beside it. Plus: chamber can still do a temperature-only run to show the cryo half live.
Chamber leaks / won't hold pressure | Switch to Demo 3 (battery, no vacuum needed) as the primary. It is fully independent of the chamber.
Guard unit fails | Spare unit pre-flashed and bench-verified, in the bag, powered by a separate supply. Hot-swap in < 60 s.
Thermocouple fails mid-run | System already handles it (§16) — let it happen and narrate it: "that's a sensor fault; watch the envelope go conservative and the channel drop out." A failure that the system handles gracefully is better than no failure.
AI/model service crashes | Forge falls back to analytical-only with a wider band; UI shows a banner. Demonstrable, and honest.
Database unavailable | UI serves last-cached envelope from Redis; Guard keeps logging to NOR flash.
Laptop dies | Second laptop with an identical offline bundle, synced nightly.
Battery pack won't cold-soak in time | A pre-soaked spare pack sits in a cooler with dry ice from 2 hours before the slot.
HV rig misbehaves | Cut it. It is the "should build" item, not a must. Recorded video only.

--- TABLE ---
Risk | Probability | Impact | Mitigation
Vacuum pump / vessel lead time or leak failure | Medium | Project-ending | Order in week 1. Leak-test before any other work. Backup: diaphragm pump reaching 60 kPa still proves the physics (30 % density loss). Small acrylic desiccator as a second vessel.
Cannot reach low enough temperature | Medium | High | −20 °C is sufficient for the full story. Dry ice for −35 °C spot soaks. Do not chase −40 °C.
Frost/condensation on feedthroughs during cryo+vacuum | High | Medium | Pre-purge with dry nitrogen or silica-dried air; desiccant in-vessel; potted feedthroughs; run vacuum before cryo, not after.
Forge prediction misses badly in the live demo | Medium | High | Show the band, not a point. Run the exact profile 12× in rehearsal and use a pre-characterised DUT. If it misses, narrate it as an out-of-domain case and show the EXTRAPOLATED flag — a system that knows it doesn't know scores well.
Battery SoP estimator doesn't converge at low T | Medium | Medium | Fall back to the conservative chamber-characterised lookup table. The A/B runtime comparison still works with a table.
Safety incident (vacuum implosion, HV, Li-ion, dry ice) | Low | Catastrophic | Written SOP before build. Vessel at ≤50 % rated vacuum. Polycarbonate not acrylic on the viewport. HV current-limited <500 µA + lid interlock + dead-man. Li-ion in a fire-safe bag with independent temperature cutoff. Dry ice only in ventilated space. M1 owns this and has veto power.
Integration slips; components work individually, not together | High | High | M6 is the named integration owner. Freeze the Forge output schema in week 2 (contract-first). End-to-end green path is a Phase 4 P0, not a final-week hope.
Standards tables (clearance factors, SEU flux) unavailable | Medium | Low | Ship as editable config with NEEDS VERIFICATION watermarks. The engine's value is the method, not the constants.
Team over-builds the UI at the expense of the chamber | High | High | Hard cap: 4 screens. M5 is forbidden from adding a fifth until the end-to-end path is green.
Scope creep into a flying drone | Medium | High | Explicitly in DO NOT BUILD. Re-read it weekly.

--- TABLE ---
Issue | Handling
Condensation on a ₹45k board | Pull vacuum first, then cool. Desiccant in-vessel. When ending a run, warm back above dew point before venting. Never vent humid room air onto a cold board. This is the failure that kills the Jetson.
Carrier board temp rating | Verify the dev kit carrier's minimum operating temperature. If it's 0 °C, run the altitude sweeps at mild ambient and do the deep-cold work on cheap DUTs. You do not need −20 °C to prove the pressure effect.
Feedthroughs | Ethernet + DC through potted feedthroughs, run headless over SSH. Do not rely on WiFi if the vessel is metal.
NVMe, not HDD | Solid state is fine at low pressure.
Budget | ₹40–50k roughly doubles your prototype cost.

--- TABLE ---
Altitude | P (kPa) | ρ/ρ₀ | θ_sa natural | θ_sa forced
3,000 m | 70.1 | 0.69 | +20% | +33%
4,500 m | 57.7 | 0.57 | +32% | +56%
5,500 m | 50.5 | 0.50 | +41% | +74%

--- TABLE ---
Layer | Technology
Frontend | React + TypeScript · Plotly (live traces) · MapLibre, offline tiles
Backend | Python / FastAPI · MQTT (Mosquitto) · Celery + Redis · Protobuf telemetry
Database | PostgreSQL 16 + TimescaleDB · Redis cache · MinIO object store
AI/ML | scikit-learn — Gaussian Process residual correction · RLS Thévenin battery model (on-MCU) · Isolation Forest anomaly detection · no deep learning, no LLM
Hardware | Vacuum vessel + rotary-vane pump · cryo shell · BMP390 ×2 · MAX31855 ×8 · AMG8833 · INA228 · STM32G431 · ESP32-S3 · FRAM · LoRa SX1276
Infra | Docker Compose, single node, offline installer · fully air-gappable, no cloud

--- TABLE ---
Risk | Mitigation
Vacuum pump lead time / vessel leak | Ordered week 1 before any other work · leak-test first · diaphragm-pump fallback reaches 60 kPa — a 30% density loss, still enough to prove the physics
Prediction misses the measurement | Output is a band, not a point · out-of-domain inputs auto-flagged EXTRAPOLATED · Guard thresholds set at the conservative edge of the band
Cannot reach −40 °C | −20 °C carries the full physics argument · dry-ice assist for −35 °C spot soaks · we deliberately do not chase −40 °C
Safety — vacuum, HV, Li-ion | Vessel run at ≤50% of rated vacuum · polycarbonate viewport · HV current-limited <500 µA with lid interlock · named safety owner holds veto
No dataset exists for HAA electronics failures | We generate our own. Physics-first design works before any model is trained; ML only narrows the error band, it is never load-bearing
